# Sea dispersal potential and colonization of the Galápagos littoral flora

##Abstract. 
Seed dispersal by oceanic currents (thalassochory) is considered one of the main long-distance dispersal (LDD) mechanisms for the colonization of oceanic islands by plants. Diaspores of littoral species are often hypothesized to be physiologically adapted to seawater dispersal favouring inter-island colonization. In this study, we experimentally tested the sea dispersal potential  of a large proportion of Galápagos littoral flora and explored its correlation with plant distribution across the archipelago. We propose a simple Sea Dispersal Potential index (SDPi) to quantify thalassochorous potential  of any species. 
We combined information on seed floatability (flotation time) and viability experiments (tetrazolium test) into an SDPi for 19 native littoral plants and tested whether increasing dispersal potential is associated with broader inter-island distributions. We then tested if the presence of morphological structures related to thalassochory is associated with the functional SDPi.
A relatively low, albeit highly variable, SDPi across Galápagos littoral plant species was observed. Besides, no correlation was found between the SDPi and species distributions. Morphological traits hypothesized to favour sea dispersal are not related to thalassorous potentials to reach close islands, but they are positively associated with SDPi to reach farthest islands. 
SDPi is shown  to be a useful tool to compare the thalassochorous potentials of entire floras in a given geographical context. The low performance shown by the majority of the species questions the general assumption that most littoral plants are highly adapted to long-distance sea dispersal. Our results support the view that island colonization is a multifactorial process, and that the use of dispersal syndromes is insufficient to make biogeographical predictions in macroecology studies.. Further research should integrate functional indices (such as SDPi) with complementary tools (genetics, remote diaspore tracking) to determine actual drivers of species dispersal and establishment.


##Content of Repository. The R code used for the analysis is summarized in Two R Markdown documents in "Code" and the data in "Data". If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us.

